Application connections tech preview (A.K.A. MCP OAuth) (#7104)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/app-connections/connect-mcp-host.md

---
navigation_title: "Connect an MCP host"
description: "Configure an MCP host to use an OAuth MCP client and complete the user consent flow to establish a connection to Agent Builder."
type: how-to
applies_to:
  serverless: preview
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
  - id: kibana
  - id: cloud-serverless
---

# Connect an MCP host to an MCP client [connect-mcp-host]

After [creating an MCP client](create-oauth-client.md), configure your MCP host with the client ID and MCP server URL, then complete the OAuth consent flow to establish the connection.

This page covers two common MCP hosts:
* Claude Code CLI, which has native OAuth support
* Claude Desktop, which uses the `mcp-remote` adapter

Other OAuth 2.1 hosts follow the same general pattern, so consult your host's documentation for the specific configuration format.

> <!-- TODO: confirm Cursor is supported in tech preview — cp-iam-team#2974 still open as of 2026-07-03. -->

Reviewer: Cursor CLI was tested https://github.com/elastic/cp-iam-team/issues/2963#issuecomment-4929182606 

I am not sure which was the correct call back, but it was one of the two (now defaults)

## Before you begin [connect-mcp-host-before-you-begin]

Confirm the following before you configure your MCP host:

- You have an MCP host that supports OAuth 2.1, such as the Claude Code CLI or Claude Desktop.
- You have a client ID and MCP server URL from [creating an MCP client](create-oauth-client.md).
- You have access to the {{serverless-short}} project that the MCP client is scoped to, not just organization-level access. The connection acts with your own permissions in that project, so you also need the privileges required for the tools you'll run through the MCP server, such as {{agent-builder}} access and read access to any data those tools query. To learn more, refer to [Permissions](/explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/permissions.md).

## Step 1: Configure your MCP host

Choose the instructions for your host.

### Claude Code CLI

**Option 1: Native HTTP transport (recommended)**

> The Claude Code CLI supports OAuth natively — no additional adapter is required. When you created the client, the redirect URI `http://localhost:3000/callback` should be in your redirect URI list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Claude Code CLI supports OAuth natively — no additional adapter is required. When you created the client, the redirect URI `http://localhost/callback` should be in your redirect URI list.
```

remove the port. We ignore the port anyway: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/277321

Run the following command, replacing `{CLIENT_ID}` and `{MCP_SERVER_URL}` with the values from your client's details page in {{kib}}:

```bash
claude mcp add --transport http --client-id {CLIENT_ID} kibana-mcp {MCP_SERVER_URL}
```

:::{note}

> For a confidential client, add the `--client-secret` flag. The flag takes no value: the CLI prompts for the secret with masked input. To skip the prompt, set the `MCP_CLIENT_SECRET` environment variable before you run the command.

Reviewer: nice. TIL

```bash
claude mcp add --transport http --client-id {CLIENT_ID} --client-secret kibana-mcp {MCP_SERVER_URL}
```
:::

**Option 2: mcp-remote adapter**

Use this option if your version of Claude Code doesn't support native HTTP OAuth transport. When you created the client, the redirect URI `http://localhost:3000/oauth/callback` should be in your redirect URI list.

```bash
claude mcp add --transport stdio kibana-mcp -- \
  npx mcp-remote \
  "{MCP_SERVER_URL}" \
  --static-oauth-client-info \
  "{\"client_id\":\"{CLIENT_ID}\"}"
```

Replace `{MCP_SERVER_URL}` and `{CLIENT_ID}` with the values from your client's details page in {{kib}}.

:::{note}
Confidential clients must include the client secret in the `--static-oauth-client-info` JSON: `{"client_id":"{CLIENT_ID}","client_secret":"{CLIENT_SECRET}"}`.
:::

The server is now configured. Start a Claude Code session. The OAuth consent flow triggers automatically on the first use of the server.

### Claude Desktop

> Claude Desktop uses the [mcp-remote](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mcp-remote) adapter to handle OAuth connections. When you created the client, the redirect URI `http://localhost:3000/oauth/callback` should be in your client's redirect URI list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Claude Desktop uses the [mcp-remote](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mcp-remote) adapter to handle OAuth connections. When you created the client, the redirect URI `http://localhost/oauth/callback` should be in your client's redirect URI list.
```

remove the port. We ignore the port anyway: elastic/kibana#277321

To configure Claude Desktop:

1. In Claude Desktop, open **Settings → Developer → Edit Config**. This opens `claude_desktop_config.json` in your text editor.
2. Add your MCP client to the `mcpServers` object:

   ```json
   {
     "mcpServers": {
       "kibana-mcp": {
         "command": "npx",
         "args": [
           "mcp-remote",
           "{MCP_SERVER_URL}",
           "--static-oauth-client-info",
           "{\"client_id\":\"{CLIENT_ID}\"}"
         ]
       }
     }
   }
   ```

   Replace `{MCP_SERVER_URL}` and `{CLIENT_ID}` with the values from your client's details page in {{kib}}.

   :::{note}
   Confidential clients also require a `client_secret` in the `--static-oauth-client-info` JSON. Include it as `"client_secret":"{CLIENT_SECRET}"` alongside the `client_id`.
   :::

3. Save the file and restart Claude Desktop to load the new configuration.

> ### Other MCP hosts**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Other MCP hosts
```

Most hosts that support OAuth 2.1 accept a similar configuration. Provide the `{MCP_SERVER_URL}` and `{CLIENT_ID}` in the format your host requires.

> ## Step 2: Authorize the connection

Reviewer: nit: ++ to using "Authorize" ... we tend to use "Authorize" and "Consent"  synonymously , which they are but not sure if the user would make that connection. Might worth a quick spot check to ensure consistent usage of "Authorize" or use "Consent" somewhere here to illustrate they are the same thing.

> The first time your MCP host tries to use the configured server, it opens a browser window and starts the OAuth consent flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first time your MCP host tries to use the configured server, it opens a browser window and starts the OAuth consent flow. Some tools may require additional manual steps. For example, Claude Code CLI requires that type `/mcp` or run `claude mcp login <mcp-host-name>` before the browser window opens. 
```

> 1. Your browser opens to an {{ecloud}} sign-in page. Sign in with your {{ecloud}} credentials, even if you already have an active session — authentication is always required before you can grant consent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Your browser opens to an {{ecloud}} sign-in page. Sign in with your {{ecloud}} credentials. If you have an active session you will not be required to log in again.
```

(this changed from the original plans)

2. The **Connect and authorize** page opens, showing which project the MCP client is requesting access to. Click **Authorize** to grant access.
3. The browser confirms the authorization is complete. Close the tab and return to your MCP host.

> A new app connection is created in {{kib}}, scoped to your account and the project the MCP client was registered for. The connection name is auto-generated in the format `<client-name>#<word-pair>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new app connection is created scoped to your account and the project the MCP client was registered for. The connection name is auto-generated in the format `<client-name>#<word-pair>`. These visible from both in {{kib}} and {{ecloud}}.
```

---
navigation_title: "Connect an MCP host"
description: "Configure an MCP host to use an OAuth MCP client and complete the user consent flow to establish a connection to Agent Builder."
type: how-to
applies_to:
  serverless: preview
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
  - id: kibana
  - id: cloud-serverless
---

# Connect an MCP host to an MCP client [connect-mcp-host]

After [creating an MCP client](create-oauth-client.md), configure your MCP host with the client ID and MCP server URL, then complete the OAuth consent flow to establish the connection.

This page covers two common MCP hosts:
* Claude Code CLI, which has native OAuth support
* Claude Desktop, which uses the `mcp-remote` adapter

Other OAuth 2.1 hosts follow the same general pattern, so consult your host's documentation for the specific configuration format.

## Before you begin [connect-mcp-host-before-you-begin]

Confirm the following before you configure your MCP host:

- You have an MCP host that supports OAuth 2.1, such as the Claude Code CLI or Claude Desktop.
- You have a client ID and MCP server URL from [creating an MCP client](create-oauth-client.md).

> - You have access to the {{serverless-short}} project that the MCP client is scoped to, not just organization-level access. The connection acts with your own permissions in that project, so you also need the privileges required for the tools you'll run through the MCP server, such as {{agent-builder}} access and read access to any data those tools query. To learn more, refer to [Permissions](/explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/permissions.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- You have access to the {{serverless-short}} project that the MCP client is scoped to, not just organization-level access. The connection acts with your own permissions in that project, so you also need the privileges required for the tools you'll run through the MCP server, such as {{agent-builder}} access and **Read** access to any data those tools query. To learn more, refer to [Permissions](/explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/permissions.md).
```

> ## Step 1: Configure your MCP host

Reviewer 3: Not required, but it would be nice to put this in a stepper with the verification as an optional step 3

Choose the instructions for your host.

> ### Claude Code CLI

Reviewer 3: Maybe consider tabs for CLI and Desktop so that it's obvious at a glance that users have both options

**Option 1: Native HTTP transport (recommended)**

> The Claude Code CLI supports OAuth natively — no additional adapter is required. When you created the client, the redirect URI `http://localhost/callback` should be in your redirect URI list.

Reviewer 3: Some verb tense weirdness here. Maybe?
```suggestion
The Claude Code CLI supports OAuth natively — no additional adapter is required. When you created the client, the redirect URI `http://localhost/callback` should have been in your redirect URI list.
```

Reviewer 4: Also instead of `the client` I'd say the `the MCP client`. Much easier to understand. Adding my own suggestion here.

> The Claude Code CLI supports OAuth natively — no additional adapter is required. When you created the client, the redirect URI `http://localhost/callback` should be in your redirect URI list.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Claude Code CLI supports OAuth natively — no additional adapter is required. When you created the MCP client, the redirect URI `http://localhost/callback` should have been included in your redirect URI list.
```

Reviewer 4: One more thing about this:

<img width="767" height="273" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/79b3fa6f-7481-4825-aa1d-ec359726abdb" />

TBH, I'd say that the sentence `When you created the MCP client, the redirect URI http://localhost/callback should have been included in your redirect URI list.` feels out of place, or need a bit of extra background about why. It should be like a footnote to the command or after the command.

The mental model should be IMO:
- Claude supports OAuth natively, so no need to use any addapter. RUN THIS COMMAND (and we give the command).
- When Claude later starts the OAuth flow, it opens a local HTTP listener at `http://localhost/callback`. Therefore, the OAuth client registered in Kibana must include this URL in its allowed redirect URIs.

Adding the second message in the opening sentence without extra context feels a bit weird.

Maybe a note like this (but we already have a note):

**Note:** When Claude Code starts the OAuth flow, it listens for the authorization response at `http://localhost/callback`. Make sure this URL is included in the allowed redirect URIs of the OAuth client you registered in Kibana.

Just for your consideration @shainaraskas =)

Run the following command, replacing `{CLIENT_ID}` and `{MCP_SERVER_URL}` with the values from your client's details page in {{kib}}:

```bash
claude mcp add --transport http --client-id {CLIENT_ID} kibana-mcp {MCP_SERVER_URL}
```

:::{note}
For a confidential client, add the `--client-secret` flag. The flag takes no value: the CLI prompts for the secret with masked input. To skip the prompt, set the `MCP_CLIENT_SECRET` environment variable before you run the command.

```bash
claude mcp add --transport http --client-id {CLIENT_ID} --client-secret kibana-mcp {MCP_SERVER_URL}
```
:::

**Option 2: mcp-remote adapter**

> Use this option if your version of Claude Code doesn't support native HTTP OAuth transport. When you created the client, the redirect URI `http://localhost/oauth/callback` should be in your redirect URI list.

Reviewer 3: Other alternative for this sentence (although idk if this works because the client should already have been created at this point)
```suggestion
Use this option if your version of Claude Code doesn't support native HTTP OAuth transport. When you create the client, the redirect URI `http://localhost/oauth/callback` should be in your redirect URI list.
```

Reviewer 4: we should align these lines with whatever we do with the **Option 1**  :)

```bash
claude mcp add --transport stdio kibana-mcp -- \
  npx mcp-remote \
  "{MCP_SERVER_URL}" \
  --static-oauth-client-info \
  "{\"client_id\":\"{CLIENT_ID}\"}"
```

Replace `{MCP_SERVER_URL}` and `{CLIENT_ID}` with the values from your client's details page in {{kib}}.

:::{note}
Confidential clients must include the client secret in the `--static-oauth-client-info` JSON: `{"client_id":"{CLIENT_ID}","client_secret":"{CLIENT_SECRET}"}`.
:::

The server is now configured. Start a Claude Code session. The OAuth consent flow triggers automatically on the first use of the server.

### Claude Desktop

> Claude Desktop uses the [mcp-remote](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mcp-remote) adapter to handle OAuth connections. When you created the client, the redirect URI `http://localhost/oauth/callback` should be in your client's redirect URI list.

Reviewer 3: same comment about tense weirdness

To configure Claude Desktop:

1. In Claude Desktop, open **Settings → Developer → Edit Config**. This opens `claude_desktop_config.json` in your text editor.
2. Add your MCP client to the `mcpServers` object:

   ```json
   {
     "mcpServers": {
       "kibana-mcp": {
         "command": "npx",
         "args": [
           "mcp-remote",
           "{MCP_SERVER_URL}",
           "--static-oauth-client-info",
           "{\"client_id\":\"{CLIENT_ID}\"}"
         ]
       }
     }
   }
   ```

   Replace `{MCP_SERVER_URL}` and `{CLIENT_ID}` with the values from your client's details page in {{kib}}.

   :::{note}

>    Confidential clients also require a `client_secret` in the `--static-oauth-client-info` JSON. Include it as `"client_secret":"{CLIENT_SECRET}"` alongside the `client_id`.

Reviewer 3: Maybe you could use the same wording for this note and the similar note(s) above

   :::

3. Save the file and restart Claude Desktop to load the new configuration.

### Other MCP hosts

Most hosts that support OAuth 2.1 accept a similar configuration. Provide the `{MCP_SERVER_URL}` and `{CLIENT_ID}` in the format your host requires.

## Step 2: Authorize the connection [authorize-connection]

The first time your MCP host tries to use the configured server, it opens a browser window and starts the OAuth consent flow.

> Some tools might require additional manual steps. For example, Claude Code CLI requires that you type `/mcp` or run `claude mcp login <mcp-host-name>` before the browser window opens.

Reviewer 3: This line interrupts the flow. I was confused whether the steps below are the regular browser auth steps or the additional manual steps. Suggest putting this in a note

> Some tools might require additional manual steps. For example, Claude Code CLI requires that you type `/mcp` or run `claude mcp login <mcp-host-name>` before the browser window opens.

Reviewer 4: > claude mcp login <mcp-host-name>

I'm not sure if `<mcp-host-name>` is correct here. We are stating that the MCP host in this mental ecosystem is Claude.

So the user should type claude mcp login `<mcp-server-name>` conceptually speaking, like `kibana-mcp` that appeared in the previous section.

Claude configures a connection to an MCP server, through our MCP Oauth client specification & authorization server.

1. Your browser opens to an {{ecloud}} sign-in page. Sign in with your {{ecloud}} credentials. If you have an active session, you are not prompted to log in again.

> 2. The **Connect and authorize** page opens, showing which project the MCP client is requesting access to. Click **Authorize** to grant access.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. The **Connect and authorize** page opens, showing which project the registered MCP client is requesting access to. Click **Authorize** to grant access.
```

If I'm not mistaken, `the MCP client` in this case would be the real MCP client we have registered initially so it's good to enhance that.

Author: swapped this to "oauth client" which should make the distinction clearer

> 3. The browser confirms the authorization is complete. Close the tab and return to your MCP host.

Reviewer 4: Should we mention in this flow the redirect to localhost that is mentioned a few times already in the doc?

Because it's in this flow where the redirect occurs, and if the `localhost/callback` URL wasn't included in the "MCP Client" created in Kibana the flow would fail.

> A new app connection is created scoped to your account and the project the MCP client was registered for. The connection name is auto-generated in the format `<client-name>#<word-pair>`. This connection is visible in both {{kib}} and the {{ecloud}} Console.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A new app connection is created scoped to your account and the project associated with the registered MCP client. The connection name is auto-generated in the format `<client-name>#<word-pair>`. This connection is visible in both {{kib}} and the {{ecloud}} Console.
```

> If you click **Deny**, no connection is created. The host retries the flow the next time you use a tool, or you can restart the host to trigger a fresh attempt.

Reviewer 3: Assuming
```suggestion
If you click **Deny** on the **Connect and authorize** page, no connection is created. The host retries the flow the next time you use a tool, or you can restart the host to trigger a fresh attempt.
```

**Authorization completed but no connection appears in {{kib}}.**

Confirm you have access to the {{serverless-short}} project the client was registered for. If your account doesn't have project access, the consent step fails silently.

**The host shows a new sign-in prompt after a period of inactivity.**

Connections expire after 30 days without use. Complete the authorization flow again to re-establish the connection.

**The authorization flow fails after you wait on the consent page.**

The MCP host's local callback server times out if the **Connect and authorize** page is left open too long before you click **Authorize**. Start the flow again and click **Authorize** promptly without leaving the consent page open.

**You need to start fresh with a new connection.**

Consult your MCP host's documentation for how to clear cached OAuth credentials and force a new authorization. Most hosts maintain only one connection for each MCP server URL, so reconfiguring with the same URL will reuse the existing connection unless the cached credentials are cleared.

## Next steps

When access is no longer needed, [revoke the connection](revoke-oauth-client.md).

## Related pages

> See also:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
